lab_1

1.1   b.   i. Function
          ii. These objects are dictionaries
         iii. The mechanism is recursive. This is because the achieve_all function calls the achieve function, which calls
              the apply_operator function, which calls the achieve_all function. This loop can be broken by these
              functions, but this loop calls itself making it recursive.

      c.   i. The famous puzzle is the Monkeys and Bananas problem. In the problem, there is a monkey who can only
              reach the bananas if he stands on a chair and waves a stick. The monkey can move around, carry things
              around, reach for the bananas, and wave a stick in the air. The goal is to find the best moves to get
              the bananas. This is not how the program is implemented. In the program, the monkey only neeeds to stand
              on the chair and the monkey is also carrying a ball.
          ii. The GPS program takes in the defined actions with their preconditions and effects and does a search
              algorithm to find the final goal state. It works by setting the goal state and working backwards through
              the preconditions to find a way to get to the initial condition. Once it reaches the initial condition,
              it lists the actions that lead to the final goal state adn that is the solution.
         iii. The code could be said to be artificially intelligent because it is attempting to be a rationally thinking
              program. It takes states, actions, and goals and finds a rational way to get from the start to the end.
          iv. A monkey who solves this probelem would be intelligent because they would not only have to solve the
	      order of operations problem, but they would have to interpret the situation, observe what different
	      objects are, manipulate objects, move themselves, and many more tasks that require intelligence to
              solve the problem that the GPS algorithm doesn't have to and can't do.



