We want the machine learned model to:
Determine whether or not an email is important.

Our ideal outcome is:
The user is able to respond to emails that are important faster because they are labeled as
such in their inbox.

Our success metrics are:
The user has a faster response time to important emails and doesn't miss any important
emails.

Our key results (KR) for the success metrics are:
The user is able to respond to or see all of the important emails coming in to their inbox.

Our ML model is deemed a failure if:
The user misses emails that are important or the user ignores the important ag because
too many non important emails are labeled as important.

The output from our ML model will be:
Whether or not the emails is important, a yes or no.

The output is dened as:
The flag that is put on the email, either important or nothing.

The output from the ML model will be made:
As soon as an email appears in the inbox, preferably without delaying the email arriving in
the inbox.

The outcome will be used for:
Emails displayed in the inbox, there will be a ag or label on the email showing if it is
important.

Write how you would solve the problem if you didn't use ML. For example, what heuristics you
might use.
Find words that appear in important emails often like "urgent" and if those are prevalent,
label it as important. The length of the email could indicate it's importance, or the person
who sends it, or if a date appears in the email that is coming up soon, they could all
indicate that the email is important.

FORMULATING:
Binary classification which predicts whether an emails is important or not.

The data I want:
Emails labeled by humans as important or not and all of the words and subject line of that email.

Where the data comes from.
A wide variety of different people, there could be a button when you send an email to label it as important
so that everyone can participate in this data collection.

Easily obtained inputs:
The words in emails, the subject of the email, how long the email is, any dates included in the email

